Critical Data & Visualization Fall 2019

My First Coding Assignment

Hi! My name is Aleksandra and in this repository I will develop my work for this class https://github.com/aleksandramedina/my-cdv-fall19 that I am taking in the Fall Semester 2019.


Reading Assignment

Introduction and Chapter 2
Q: Why does Bowker say "'Raw data is both and oxymoron and a bad idea'" ? (pp. 663)
Raw data can be anything we want it to be, because by itself it means nothing until we give it meaning. Thus, raw data is never really raw; how can something that needs to be given meaning by us be considered raw? The moment we acknowledge that this is data, we have already cooked it by our own subjective analysis of what qualifies something as good enough to be called raw data. Furthermore, the (somewhat) accessibility of huge amounts of non-representative raw data allows people, who lack sufficient training and understanding, to make claims apparently backed by the ‘truth’. Unfortunately, the term raw data creates an illusion that this data is scientific in nature; that it is objective and free of interpretation. However, the data is neither representative nor raw, because it is generated by a specific population that has access to technology and social media, and it has been handled by APIs, AIs and researchers themselves to filter out the bad data by ending up with the so-called raw data.

Section 1 (pp. 665)
Q: What could be meant by the quote "'accounting tools [...] do not simply aid the measurement of economic activity, they shape the reality they measure'"? Try draw parallels to the CompStat system from the Reply All Podcast.
In the Reply All Podcast the CompStat system not only helped measure and classify crimes in New York City, but it eventually changed how crime was seen and measured by the police. The mechanism they used changed police work and the reality they were working towards - their goal was not to stop crime, it was to keep crime rates going down. Thus, this resulted in forced police activity in places where there wasn’t crime to stop, and, even worse, crime ended up not being reported in order to avoid the crime stats going up. Thus, the tool used to decrease crime in New York has changed the perception of crime rate, policing and the actual goal of the police. Instead of stopping crime, they are focused on keeping the crime rate down.
Furthermore, how do you measure crimes that were about to happen but were stopped? How do you measure how safe people feel in a city? The crime rate has become unrepresentative because the tool measures a different kind of reality it helped to establish.

Section 3 and 4 (pp. 668)
Q: In which way is Twitter data limited?
Twitter data represents a very specific population - a population that uses social media and has daily access to technology & the Internet, which is not a global representation at all,
There are many people who are only ‘listeners’; people who are influenced by what they read on Twitter but do not contribute themselves,
Bots,
As per its policies, Twitter removes problematic tweets (fake news, offensive content, graphic etc.), which skews the reality of what people actually tweet about,
Twitter does not release all of its data - some of it is sold, some of it is available to prestigious universities, but the majority is available to the social media company itself and its own researchers.

Section 5 (pp. 671)
Q: If you don't need to login to obtain certain data, then it is public and free to use. Or isn't it? Please share your opinion.
This is an incredibly difficult question. There are many people who do not quite realize the implications of their online activities, for example, young children. On one hand it would be unreasonable to ask every researcher to contact each person whose data will be used in a research study, but at the same time singling someone out and/or sharing their online information could destroy their social life or even threaten their safety. There is a lot of personal information that we upload to our social media platforms and I am sure that it would not be too difficult to identify someone by publishing something they have posted online. But on the other hand, if their data is simply used as ‘one among many’, for example, people who used the word “sunshine” in their tweets in the last three days, that, in my opinion, should be ethically fine. Generally speaking, I don’t think there is one golden rule to abide by, other than common sense. However, it could happen that someone might not even imagine the consequences of their research and the implications of using someone’s data for research.
